good morning thanks for waking up with
us this morning and coming to check out
this great session this is session
number seven eleven enhanced learning
with QuickTime and I'm very happy to
introduce our speaker he was one of the
most highly critically acclaimed
speakers last year so it was a
no-brainer to invite him back so I'd
like to introduce to you David Egbert
[Applause]
okay Oh how's this great all right here
we go
certainly a pleasure to be with you
today to talk about QuickTime and using
QuickTime to hands learning before we
get started tonight kind of see how many
of you are from an educational
institution all right
great how many of you are from a company
that builds instructional software okay
thank you okay that's great
thanks for being here today I hope
hopefully I'll have some things to show
you that can be extremely useful for you
and your you and your company or
institution let's see I'm from Brigham
Young University and from the Center for
instructional design the Center for
instructional design is the center set
up for faculty at our University we do
instructional design consultation and
multimedia production do everything from
showing faculty how to use email and
PowerPoint to building rich internet
applications instructional software
commercial applications and those sort
of things today we're going to be
talking about QuickTime and right off
the top I want to show you some examples
some of the things that we've done over
the years to help enhance the learning
process we'll also be talking well the
first part will be a broad range of
examples from very simple things to a
few complex things after that I'd like
to kind of drill down and focus in on
synchronized lectures or synchronized
presentations this is one area that I
think is has real potential in QuickTime
there are some advantages of using
QuickTime versus other technologies and
we'll talk about that today in our
discussion also talk about some tips and
tricks of how to make your workflow a
little more efficient when you're
creating these materials also talk about
of course the authoring tools that are
available and probably most important
I'm going to step I'm going to go
through step by step through some
scenarios of what you might encounter
and putting some of these things
together and we'll be using all kinds of
different tools so without further ado
let's look at some examples could we
switch to the laptop please
okay here we go now this is an old wee
oldie but a goodie probably about four
years old that we created and it's been
remodeled
using some modern tools this is a
picture of Mona Lisa right and did you
know that the painter of the Mona Lisa
Leonardo da Vinci let's get it going
here there we go look at that
resemblance isn't that kind of spooky a
a professor requested this and
originally we did this in another
authoring tool but this is a great
example of being able to compare and
contrast right you've got two images you
want to compare them wow this is great
so we brought the Mona Lisa into
Photoshop put Leonardo DaVinci right on
top safe throughout its two images
brought in into iPhoto and saved it out
as a QuickTime movie that allowed us to
put that transition in there so it was
really easy to be able to do this now
the professor loves this because in the
past the professor had transparencies
right these flip of the transparencies
in and out trying to get it to line up
for whatever it just didn't work right
but now with the projector in the
classroom and the computer they can pull
this up and use it in the classroom the
professor also has this in his online
course so the students can go back and
kind of fool around with it as well so
just a quick and easy way to be able to
compare and contrast two different
images let's go here's something a
little bit more advanced this was done
for a 'cimmanon cinematography class
where they wanted to show the students
the difference between an unrestored and
a restored video clip so if we open this
up here we go oh yes so there's the
unrestored version did we click this
button we get the restored version if
you click back here we get the old
version right I asked if I get asked for
this is something QuickTime does
extremely well and that is the ability
has swapped cracked-out video track
audio tracks it's really easy to do this
inside from the authoring tools that are
available
yes for quick time this is really hard
to do in other technologies especially
the fact that when you click that button
it's sinking its frame level accuracy
thinking it's swapping out those tracks
right at the frame yeah it's great so
let's look at another example here's
another one a professor brought in a
series of images that they had taken
shooting some flames now each one of
those quadrants they've added a little
bit different property to the flame and
they wanted to be able to analyze all
the flames at the same time so what we
did here is that these are all image
sequences right so we brought in each
created a separate movie for each one of
those and then we combine all the movies
together right and now they're playing
together with frame accurate
synchronicity altogether now we added a
little twist to this they also wanted to
be able to take this little square here
and move it around and analyze this that
specific portion of that little flame
right so we after we we actually created
most of that we created the frames with
QuickTime Player Pro we added a little
timecode track so they could stop the
clip at any point and just analyze that
still frame and then we brought in the
live stage to be able to add the
interactivity that we could move around
that little square so they could analyze
a specific portion of that flame not not
terribly tough as far as the authoring
is concerned let's move on here's a
digitized film strip we've got all kinds
of film strips you know what the audio
cassettes in in our libraries this one
let's bring it up there we go this one's
in Russian
and the students were required to check
out the film strip and the cassette tape
from our LRC and this thing was
deteriorating really fast so they wanted
to archive it and and and just save the
original version and make this available
digitally we created this we digitized
this we scan the slides we re digitize
the cassette and put this together with
QuickTime Player Pro it was a terribly
tough not going to show you how to do
this today
now there were some copyright issues and
things like that and fortunately in our
on our campus we have a copyright and
licensing office so we don't have to
worry about the copyright issues they do
so once it's cleared we have to go ahead
to go ahead and digitize these materials
so this is a great example of being able
to repurpose materials to make it
available in digital form so that the
originals will be archived and safe just
another that was another great example
also of language learning you got to
learn foreign languages you've got to
listen and you've got to know listen to
the native voice here's another language
learning example this is another oldie
this is about four years old
here's a video clip that has sound like
a DVD right you've got the French audio
you've got with the English audio and
again you can swap the tracks at any
time while you're viewing the trip the
clip at all seriously doing a little
beautiful that's what we agreed you just
let me feel yeah what a great way to be
able to learn a foreign language we
starting out learning a foreign language
you can flip through the tracks there's
also an english subtitle you can turn
the subtitle off if you want or not so
you can listen to the french and read
the english try to get that going or
listen to the english audio just another
thing that QuickTime does extremely well
and that is that swapping of the tracks
okay here's another really simple
example
professor this is an entry-level class
and the professor was tired of bringing
the students into the lab every single
class putting that steel rod in that
machine and and showing the students how
that gets stretched and what's going on
here so what we did is we recorded the
click the experiment and added a little
flash track down here that shows what
the meteors are doing this is great
because this frees up the the lab for
the higher level classes for their
experiments right and it still gives the
students the ability to kind of see
what's going on with the steel the
professor uses this in the classroom and
again makes that available in his online
course so the students can check it out
and review it later on
another great pretty simple way to to
create an instructional object okay all
right this was done for another
professor this is using this professor
wanted to combine assessment with the
video clips kind of wanted to help the
students a little bit in helping to
retain some of the information they did
so what we did is we created this is
just a QuickTime movie with an H ref
track at the very end the all of you if
you skip to the very end is going it has
an H ref track that takes you to of
question an assessment piece right now
this is self assessment the student just
comes in here and can check their
answers but nonetheless this is another
technique that you can use to help your
students help them comprehend let's go
of the materials that you're doing this
is kind of a template that we created
for them and then the professor went and
and took their settings and created a
whole website this is an advice get to
the end here there's just a little HRF
track that at the very end takes you to
an assessment piece again not very
difficult to do and we'll show you how
to create a H ref tracks here in just a
minute all right here's another fun
little example this one's 24 kilobytes
it's a little drill in practice
computers are great for drill in
practice because they never get tired
right so sometimes they call it drill
and kill so here
you see you're I'm supposed to supposed
to find an interval here Gog on it let's
see here let's get one right what's cool
about this is that it leverages the
QuickTime well the QuickTime instruments
kind of the MIDI playback that's inside
of QuickTime so it's extremely
lightweight and it has all kinds of
potential we've got some really
interesting examples in testing with
music and things like that
this one also you can test the interval
as you again this was done with live
stage and it leverages those QuickTime
instruments which makes it really
lightweight so the students can just
drill and kill til the cows come home
alright here's another one this one's a
listening guide originally this was done
in flash it was like flash 2 or
something flash 3 but we brought it into
QuickTime because it seemed at the time
it seemed to perform just a little bit
better so what this is is a listening
guide right we've got the Beethoven
sniff going in the background we've got
some visual information it's also
interactive so if you want to just skip
to the French horns terrific or if ol
let's let's see what was this what's the
coda sound like a professor can use this
in the classroom right and in the past
the students had a set of CDs and the
workbook and they'd have to find the
track on the CD player and look in the
right page and kind of sync them up as
they're learning now we can do that on
the screen right and it's interactive so
they can jump through and you can use
this in all kinds of different ways
[Music]
again pretty easy to put together in
flash here's another one video of course
is great for performance analysis can
you hear that now
[Music]
performance analysis Peschel ii when a
movement is involved right so what we
have here is the professor just sitting
by the camera with the microphone
videotaping this student keep your feet
giving some feedback as they're dancing
this looks this is great because the
professor really loves this and the
technologist come down now that we don't
have to do anything now the professor
knows the whole workflow as students
helping me shoot this the video clip
back every the first of course is the
broken up into units and every single
unit the end of the unit every single
student in the class it's moving video
feedback and the students love that they
can go through and review that clip
multiple times and it just makes it a
little bit more convenient for the
student as well all them all the video
clips are up online on the on the course
site and a great simple it's really not
that high-tech
just sitting by the camera offering you
know feedback after dancing great
example of kind of a low threshold of
technology that you can use okay let's
see what else we got
okay time-lapse photography is also kind
of a fun turn that down a little bit of
course this is really easy to do with
QuickTime Player Pro you just there's an
option in there that you can import an
image sequence
after we did this with up next the next
grab what we're going to do is actually
put the times in there and maybe add a
chapter track or something that you
could kind of jump through specific
times all kinds of interesting things
there okay so we kind of got our broad
range now let me show you some
presentations this next presentation was
done in smile and what we've done is
basically let's see here open it up a
QuickTime Player this particular example
is basically synchronizing video with
slides right questions but we've added a
few extra things we've added a table of
contents and you can click on the table
of contents the extra hand it'll go into
information would be here we go that's
creditors and government we also have a
chapter track down here another element
jump to a specific place the LA chapter
track what is and we have a caption as
well and I'll show you how to put this
together but the advantage of using
smile of course is that it's a
text-based markup language so editing
this material it's really easy just go
in and change some of the parameters in
the text and those things are
immediately changed this particular
example also
I'll make available at least the source
code for the smile piece as a download
so if you want to check it out and kind
of see how all those things are put
together you have access to that as well
so there's an example with smile here's
the here's the example of the same thing
as an href track using H ref track and
using HTML frames instead this is
another advantage now if the professor
has a lot of HTML files that you want
synchronized this is a great weight way
to do that I'm sorry that the audio
isn't Clyde's loves again you have a
chapter track here so if you want to
jump to a specific page in order for you
to make an Intel where we go thank you
this vision which by the way and this is
extremely lightweight because you know
it's just HTML over and this is a frame
here terms of your stock so it makes it
also that you can embed other materials
Lash files other movie clips those kinds
of things there
something about and we'll show you how
to put together in each rec track
presentation looking at one okay now
this I really want to show you this one
classes as enough sorry about the audio
I really this one is just one slide it's
just very short but I want you to pay
attention to the quality of the video
I'm going to return to this later in
some slides this particular professor
really wanted us to shoot him inside the
classroom and I think there's some
disadvantages of doing that one is that
the lighting was extremely challenging
my office the other one you just missed
it there but the student is actually
answering a question and at the time we
weren't set up with the proper miking
and things like that this is kind of a
lessons learned example also with this
particular piece the the content he's
talking with the students well I'll
leave it to another slide another thing
that it does measuring this is so
there's shooting a professor inside the
classroom let's let's look at and let's
contrast that with another we talked in
an earlier presentation this
presentation antifreeze was shot in a
studio but while the professor is
reading a script often tell a promising
your information and there's some we
talk reasons why we really prefer the
indirect and we'll discuss it here
shortly
logical sequence and structure this
particular piece was created in live
State and one thing we really like about
live stage is the ability to sync this
right down also want to decide have a
nice GUI to the frame levels it has
those three elements and then talk about
how to implement those three elements in
a good please again we have a chapter
track down here so we can jump to
specific points in this P elements is
everything let's just go down to agenda
ready to move to the fourth part of the
preview and that is the agenda statement
of the agenda is just a listing of the
main points that we're going to talk
about okay great let's see let's show
you one more this is kind of over the
top
particularly what is statistics you know
I really hate to say it objectives are
what you define this particular
professor is kind of boring its
statistics and the students we're
getting really bored so one thing that
we did is that we enabled multi-speed
control and the students loved this and
it was break a religion fighting for the
lead again this is really cool because
you know our human mind we can
comprehend hundreds of words per minute
right and yet a lot of times we're just
stuck on one speed so this allows the
students X to get through more material
in the same timeframe right will be
another thing is you have to kind of
focus on what the person saying as
they're speaking to that so helps the
students kind of focus in on the content
using rational argument and logic I want
to show you how to do this today I think
this is this is really important I think
we guys can really benefit from what's
going on here probably very cold now
this was done a live stage - and this
has a few more well it has a table of
contents again and some extra buttons
and links to different things and this
one actually later on and the
presentation has some areas where the
presentation stops and you have to
answer a few questions and then continue
on there's all kinds of great things you
can do inside the video clip itself now
one thing that I haven't mentioned yet
is that these slides here are still
slides right we're not talking hundreds
of frames per second it's a still slide
that lasts for you know X amount a
second so these can be extremely
lightweight and of course it's all
inside a QuickTime movie so it makes it
really easy to make this thing portable
and transport around we throw this on a
CD we can throw it up on the webpage
there's all kinds of interesting things
we can do once it's a QuickTime movie so
I think that adds to the kind of the dog
and pony show here can we go back to
slides please
okay here we go
so let's talk about why you would want
to create synchronized lectures you know
it takes some time and it takes some
resources so there better be some
important reasons why that we spend the
amount of time and money to do these
things of course probably the number one
thing is that a sport supports different
learning styles students out there learn
in different ways some learn more by
listening some learn more by viewing
visuals some learn more by just reading
and we want to be able to accommodate
those different learning learning styles
I think some of the things I show today
help accommodate those things it also
involves more of the senses there are
studies that show that when you involve
more of the senses in the learning
process that the students retain that
information better and and definitely
we're using a lot of senses when we're
creating these types of presentations
probably the number one feedback from
the students is that it's convenient and
it's flexible in the past they've had to
go to these lectures at specific set
times now that in a lot of our classes
what we do is we do kind of a hybrid
model where half you know the class met
two times a week now they only meet one
times one time a week and that other
class time they are assigned to go
through these lectures to synchronize
lectures that allows them at the other
time that there's a meet in class to do
more active group type activities more
active learning type activities in the
classroom and students really love that
they can focus in on the content a lot
of times in the lectures when you're a
live lecture they're students that ask
really stupid questions and hold the
rest of the class back now if there's a
question a lot of times the students can
go and review those materials again and
again in the lecture and if they still
don't get it then they can ask the
professor online it kind of kind of
helps on in time and not wasting
everybody's time in the press in the
lecture of course you can review
multiple sections you can jump straight
to content so if you have a phone call
and then you want to get back to your
lesson you can jump straight to the that
lesson and there are some ways that you
can make it sir
trouble as well let's see what else we
got here so what kind of features are we
looking for we took a really hard look
at what kind of features we wanted in a
synchronized lecture and we did a pretty
good survey I think even building some
of our own little things in different
architectures and and this is kind of
the list that we came up with it has to
be cross-platform all too often
especially are not IT department it's
always windows only and they forget
about that there's other operating
systems out there especially the
Macintosh and so we want to make this
thing it's cross-platform as possible
and most of our users are using either
Windows or Macintosh on campus and so
QuickTime is just a natural fit for that
we want full transport control we want
to be able to stop that at any moment we
want to be able to jump to specific
points we want full transport control we
want at a nice table of content that the
student can navigate so they know
exactly where they are and they can jump
specific points we of course we want the
slides and the audio and video to be
synchronized and we want the
synchronization to be tight
we don't want it after a second after
they've talking about it to have
materials show up we want synchronicity
we want synchronicity compliant with
accessibility standards that's a very
important thing for us as well of course
you should be familiar with section 508
and also the accessibility guidelines by
the wc3 I have some more slides on that
later let's say we need a progress
indicator we need to let students know
how long this particular lecture is and
where they are in that particular
lecture we also need to stand we need
support it needs to be flexible enough
that we can create a single lesson or we
can combine multiple lessons in a single
file and probably most importantly we
need options to be able to deploy this
how many of you are familiar with acacia
it's well there's some patent suits
going on right now and some educational
institutions are being sued because of
these patent suits that have to do with
distributing video online now they're
going after cellphone and satellite
companies and all kinds of interesting
things it's going to be very
seeing how this plays out but we want
some options to be able to bypass some
of these legal issues that are currently
available are currently there here's
some of the things that we looked at we
looked a breeze of course that the
architecture breeze is it's built off a
flash communication server has all kinds
of really interesting things but we
found that you know we we already have a
sort of we have a of course management
system blackboard that we use on campus
that's kind of the direction we got so
there's all kinds of bells and whistles
that we really don't need inside a
breeze plus you know the pricing is a
little steep right now and we wanted to
look for other solutions Microsoft
producer is another solution that's out
there but of course it's its windows
only there was a short time frame or
Internet Explorer for Mac was compatible
but since that's gotten the ax it really
is a non solution for us in Pataca and
also flash MX 2004 our other solutions
that are out there incidentally flash is
really pushing hard their video solution
and we've kind of hit the wall with some
of the some issues maybe you have to
with trying to synchronize things
especially to the frame level it we we
ended up having to basically keyframe
every frame in the video clip they'd be
able to jump to specific points love to
talk to anybody about that if you want
to afterwards all right so why QuickTime
well of probably number one on there is
high quality we have so much flexibility
in there that it really allows us to
kind of fine-tune things and we just
notice with our flash developers and the
QuickTime developers that we can get
them actually a higher quality out of
the QuickTime stuff is it's a of course
a cross-platform solution and I really
like the tracks track based architecture
that makes it so easy to be able to put
these kinds of materials together and
I'll show you some development here
shortly
another great thing is that QuickTime
has frame level synchronization you can
synchronize things down to the frame and
it usually it's just rock-solid a long
history of cd-rom and web support
BIRT supports a single plugin instead of
collection products that's very
important to us we really want to keep
the support costs low with all the
products that we released there's always
a support cost that's attached to that
we need to be really careful with that
there are some issues that you should be
aware of probably the toughest thing for
our students is some students is the
install process there's just like I
can't remember how many of there are now
13 14 steps and some of the technophobes
out there are scared to death they don't
know what any of these screens mean
stuff so you just need to be prepared
just kind of stepping through the
process of course you know those techno
guys out there the techno folks usually
have no problem installing QuickTime
they just click through right there's
also the nag screen occasionally we'll
put things in the QuickTime Player and
some of the some of the technophobes
just don't know what to do once screens
up there why do I not and we kind of
need to help step them through the
process now most of the stuff we do
nowadays is through the QuickTime
plug-in which that next screen only
shows once when you make the install and
then it doesn't show again if you're
using the plug-in so a lot of the stuff
we do even on cd-rom will actually just
put it in a web environment
okay here's kind of a process that we
use to create synchronized lectures of
referring well first we have them create
a script I think this is really
important
there's all kinds of noise we really
feel that there's all kinds of noise
when we shoot in a live a live setting
it may save time but I think in the long
run if you bring the faculty member in
at the studio you get a nice you get a
more clear message and so we have the
professor created script of course that
script goes through a review process
once the script is finalized we actually
create the slides after the script is
done so it saves us time on that once
the slides are done we usually use
PowerPoint that seems to be very popular
we'll talk more about that here later we
after we create the slides and the
script we create a document that has all
that information in it and we go into
the studio we shoot
professor the professor is reading the
scripts or if they're off the
teleprompter or if they're really good
they just kind of recite it by memory
after that we create an interface we
create a caption the caption is really
easy in this kind of workflow because
you already have the script right then
we add an interface we sync the Flies
together add a caption add an index and
index basically is the chapter tracked
prep for deployment and then we deploy
it now after this we have also an
evaluation process we have student
surveys make sure that the materials
that we creator actually do conferencing
the objectives that we've set out since
this is a development forum I skipped
all that stuff okay so when we create a
script you slated in Microsoft Word and
something very important to the
developers is they actually label when
the slides are it's extremely helpful
for us okay when we acquire the slides
usually it's through PowerPoint and
there's an interesting issue with
PowerPoint most of the professors like
to use one slide with multiple bullet
points right and they use a custom
animation to show the points one at a
time well we want to be able to export
that out into still images and of course
QuickTime supports all kinds of
different image formats so you just need
to export to one of those that that fit
usually you found that you need to
export those slides on the same machine
that was authored that you just usually
simplifies if you don't have the fonts
of course there's font substitution that
comes in there's cross-platform issues
especially with the latest version of
Microsoft Office for OS 10 has all kinds
of really cool graphics features you can
the Alpha channels is extremely
important to us and it supports that and
the Windows doesn't do a great job with
that so usually we like to export on the
same machine now at the Macintosh picked
format can also use vector text but when
you save out those slides as Macintosh
pick you have to make sure that wherever
you deploy that particular presentation
they have to have those same fonts
so usually for simplicity we just export
out as pink now returning back to the
issue of how do you capture the slides
if all the bullet point you want all the
bullet points to be separate well we
took a look at that and we decided that
we were going to create an Apple script
so we have an Apple script that you can
connect up to snaps Pro so basically you
just set snaps Pro up with the the file
format you want to save it as and the
size and everything and bring up the
presentation and and let Apple script go
through alpha script will drive the
presentation in full-screen and snaps
Pro will take a picture of every single
slide that you've got we found that to
be extremely useful so the end of the
presentation I'll show you a link where
you can download that and use that if
you'd like okay so after after the
slides we capture the video you do have
the option to record in the class but we
found that kind of the noise to learning
or noise to content levels pretty high
inside of well in a live setting also
there's lighting issues that you really
want to you really want to bring this
person in the studio to get a good
quality video clip now I guess there's
also issues on whether you use talking
head or whether you skip the talking
head and just use audio for some reasons
to use talking head is if the professor
is is using a lot of body language
you know nonverbal communication
accounts for like I guess studies show
that 55 percent of the presentation is
dependent on or is impacted by the
nonverbal language that's going on in
the presentation so some professors
you'll probably want to use video and
other professors should probably don't
want to use video so that's kind of a
judgment call that you'll need to make
of course not using video you've reduced
the size significantly of the
presentation so there's some things to
look at of course you want to use proper
line lighting you want to use a closed
microphone so you can capture the audio
nice and clear sometimes we've we've
experimented with capturing straight too
a compressed format using a broadcaster
or some other tool we actually found a
way to hack Final Cut Pro 2 to capture
in Sorenson video I stick to the
standard of methods of capturing the
tape dumping that down and compressing
from a high res file it does a better
job refri of course we do pre-processing
when you squeeze cleaner and compressor
it just depends on the project and what
resources are available at the time
after that we create the interface of
course we use Photoshop we we leverage
layers very important concept for us
helps maximize things of course there's
all kinds of cool non destructive things
that you can do effects and things that
you can do in Photoshop that we lack the
leverage and this is just a simple
interface that we threw together we have
a portion for the video we have a
portion for the slides and we just kind
of put a skin on it creating a caption
this is again very important for
education and why you might want to do
that the government of course has come
out with section 508 which are a set of
guidelines for all of their products
that they need to be they need to
account for accessibility of basically
for video we need to accommodate a few
things for the visually challenged we
need to add some kind of an equivalent
like an audio track for the for the
hearing-impaired we need to excuse me we
need to be able to we need to be able to
show captions and provide some kind of a
text equivalent right and also the w3c
has come out with some guidelines as
well that we need to account for so how
do you go about doing this inside a
QuickTime well because of the track
based architecture text tracks is one of
the track types that you can use and so
we actually do a lot of our captioning
just by hand pulling up QuickTime Player
pulling up Microsoft Word and going
through and and typing those things in
there
are some applications out there that are
available that can kind of help
streamline things magpie is a free
utility that's out there by WGBH that's
build off of Java so it's crafts
platform and it does a pretty good job
it's you're actually a terrific
application especially because it's free
that allow you to go through and mark
times and then at the very end well as
you mark times in the video clip you can
add your your text the text that needs
to go there and at the very end you can
export that as a QuickTime movie we'll
kind of go through the process of
creating some of these things here
shortly but tech station and go live and
live stage all have options as well that
allow you to create captions and we'll
go through the process of creating some
of those things here shortly
how we doing oh okay
I'm going to just win through some of
this stuff here here we go indexing
indexing is very important we want to be
able to jump through to specific points
in a movie usually we do that through
tractor tracks you can also create a
visual table of contents and there are
some facility out there there is
facility out there to do do searchable
tracks okay here we go so I'm going to
show you how to create synchronized
presentations and all of these different
solutions here QuickTime Player Pro
Smile live stage and go live and can we
go back to oh this is good Wow hey guess
what okay so let's see let's start off
by using smile no I take that back let's
use QuickTime Player Pro we're going to
create that slideshow that the Russian
slideshow in QuickTime Player basically
what we're going to do you need to have
Pro to do this is here's the audio track
and here are the slides I'm just going
to open up the first five slides or so
in QuickTime Player here we go okay
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to copy this slide to the clipboard so
here we go copy then I'm going to go to
the audio track and I'm going to hold
down the shift key now this is a great
example because there's actually a beep
that tells me when the slot next slide
is excuse me so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to play this clip I'm going to
hold down the shift key what that does
is as the movie is playing it's going to
select that portion that it just played
so here we go aha okay so now I've just
selected that portion that slides on the
clipboard now what I'm going to do is
come under here and choose add scale and
what that does is that adds that
particular slide to that duration in the
in the movie clip now we're at the very
end of that clip so we don't see it
that's fine what I'm going to do now is
do command B which will take the both
selection points and put them right at
the point where I just stopped I'm going
to hold down the shift key again play to
the next slide whew okay right there and
let's go to slide two we're going to
copy this to the clipboard and then I'm
going to choose that scale okay now that
just added that slide to the selection
that's that's made available right there
so I'm going to do command B and we're
going to do this one more time I'll put
you to do stuff Caillou
I need you you don't put your rounds I
do is round cook okay and slide three
let's find slide three cocky and scaled
okay pretty straightforward the only
disadvantage of this is if you screw up
you kind of have to do undo and back up
a little bit see what's going on but
here let me just show you what that
looks like now that's cool those thing
that old lady Plus Wow magic okay good
night
not bad huh kind of little
straightforward okay so basically that's
doing kind of a presentation in
QuickTime Player Pro I guess what I
could have done is added a caption I'll
have to skip that today we're kind of
running short on time so let's move to
smile let me open up this presentation
right here here's our smile file and can
you see that is that that kind of small
let me see if I can zoom in real quick
okay let's go through kind of what's
going on here so for smile of course
it's it's based off of XML so we need to
make sure that our our tags are all
straight and that we've got ending
brackets and everything at the very
beginning here we kind of setup smile
and then we set set it names an XML
namespace here or what kind of code
we're using QuickTime has all kinds of
interesting QuickTime specific tags that
you can use then you can see some of
these right at the very top we're going
to set the autoplay to true we're going
to add a time slider we're going to get
immediate instantiation kind of means to
this movie wait till everything gets
loaded before it plays or can it kind of
like fast start start playing before
things are completely loaded and we're
using a chapter track in here and so
there's a chapter track mode that we
need to set for all which means this
whole movie clip gets the same chapter
track after that we have a header here
and in the header we get to put semana
patience these actually show up as
QuickTime annotations and there's a
whole set of different parameters that
you can set there in the layout area
this is kind of where we set up visually
what's going to be happening in this
smile file and so we set up a route
layout that's the the basic dimensions
of the whole file and then inside that
route loud layout we can put in regions
and these regions are the different
containers that we have for the
different objects in there so we have a
reason for the backdrop we have a region
for the video we have a region for the
slides and also the transcript after
that this is kind of crazy this is kind
of a solution we came up with for for
the navigation the table of contents we
actually set up a region for every
single chapter point that's there in the
table of contents kind of crazy I think
there's been some fixes now with
QuickTime text that you can actually
just put one line of text in there
instead but we just set up regions in
each region as each region has a
specific area also right right beside
the region there is a little pointer a
little dot that tells you what chapter
that you're on we actually set up a
separate reason for that so let's see
how am I going to do this I guess I'm
going to have to do this okay let's
scroll down a little bit
alright here's where we start placing
things the actual content in the
presentation so we have the body tag and
inside the body tag we have a parallel
tag so in the parallel tag everything
gets played at the same time so we have
a background image that needs to be
played at the same time and we actually
sent you notice that there's an end tag
here and you see that here we go the end
tag says hey stretch this background
image to the entire length of the video
clip and we also set a chapter point
this QT colon chapter those are actually
the chapter tracks that get listed right
and we set a duration these are actually
the slides here so you have all the
slides and this is a little confusing
sorry about that at the very end here
we have the table of contents it's
actually a text in fact right let's see
sorry about this this is actually text
text data the quick time quick timing
basically has its own little markup
language for text and that's basically
what you're seeing here we're saying hey
show this text it's QT text show the
font of a size bold with all that stuff
and at the very end is the content right
here start that's what actually gets
shown in that particular layer we won't
spend too much time on this because you
can download it you can check it out for
your for yourself if you like I actually
wrote this by hand
I just find out just a little bit easier
to do a lot of times you know with HTML
they the editors kind of add an extra
code and stuff that kind of gets in the
way that's kind of the same thing here
now go live does have a smile editor and
actually I like developing in that kind
of the mark-up changes color and that
kind of fun stuff but I kind of still
kind of code by hand and hopefully this
will kind of give you a good idea what's
available inside a quick time okay so
moving right along let's see what's next
let's do href tracks real quick how much
time do we have there's 12 minutes ok so
here's an 8 track track this is kind of
what we did to set this up we use go
live go live actually has a really good
QuickTime editor in it it's kind of
tucked behind there's not a lot of
marketing going on with the QuickTime
editor inside of go live but the first
thing we do with this is that we set up
a web page right and this is a framed
environment so we have an area where the
video clip gets displayed and if I open
that up here's the video clip and it's
basically an embedded QuickTime movie
that's there we have just a blank space
here and then here's where the content
is and very what's very important here
you need to know the name of this frame
space because when the movie is playing
we tell the we tell the HRF track to say
hey grab this HTML file and put it in
this frame and so we need to know that
frames called content so if we come over
here I'm just going to double click on
this video clip and it opens up the QT
yet the QuickTime editor in here now
there's a timeline here at the very top
and we're going to show that it's one
thing I really like about the live is
timeline it's really nice what let's see
if I can move some things around here
okay so this this particular movie clip
just has an audio track I'm sorry an
audio track gap and a video track and
what we want to do is add an H ref track
so if you go over here to the there's a
QuickTime properties area here and if we
come down here is the href track symbol
so we're going to drag an H ref track
there now let's see if I can yeah oh
well when you're the inspector so bring
the inspector back I must select there's
actually kind of a track view and then
this is the sample view down below we
need to select that sample view and the
very beginning here we need to select
that first so if I can find this real
quick I don't but now we need to select
the first slide so here's our slides and
what I did earlier is I created an HTML
page for every single slide so this is
the first slide that needs to be loaded
so we're going to select that we're
going to select the target which is
since the page is already opened in the
background it puts the the frame name
makes it available for me and I'm going
to select Auto load URL ok so we've set
up our first frame now what we need to
do is I'm going to choose preview here
and for some reason now that activates
this little transport down here I'm
going to play this clip these questions
reflected here in this first problem the
first one was ok right there I want to
change the slide so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to take my slice tool and
line it up right there and create a new
sample inside this H ref track now if I
select that sample I can change this to
slide 2 right so now I have slide 1 at
the very beginning and now at that
particular time it goes to slide 2 now
all I do
from this is I just continued on well
accounting is look I think I think it
goes all right about there somewhere in
that area so you just keep doing this to
the end of the presentation right all
right so that's basically how you go
ahead and put in an each rep track now
you can do something very similar with a
text track inside of school live let's
drag it text track here oh and I need to
bring this all the way back and here we
have the track representation and then
down below we have the samples and this
is where we put the actual text so what
I'm going to do here is and again you
can just work linear linear linear leave
I'll ask over these questions we K so
you can start there and say that's what
he says back it up just a little bit try
it again
questions reflected here in this version
you get the idea and then when you apply
that and then you can use the same
process here of breaking up those tracks
into different points and just kind of
go in a linear fashion all the way
through the clip and create that text
track now one thing that I forgot to do
is you can actually go here in the
layout area and you can change the
dimensions of that so if you wanted this
to be there we go and we could just move
that down to the bottom and I guess I
should change this text here if I select
the sample here I can
and apply it okay now when I save this
and let's go and let's see if this all
works let's go over the side I think
I've got here are there's some issues
with my frames everyone was why is it
when you see the caption is working and
you also see that the HTML pages are
flipping right which is business because
it counting cease to provide information
does that give you a good enough idea
what's going on there so there's a
powerful tool inside oh and there's all
kinds of interesting tracks you can do
you can do effects tracks and all kinds
of chapter tracks is basically the same
process of going through linear start at
the beginning and just go all the way
down your movie and add chapter tracks
and so that's basically using go live we
need to jump into live stage real quick
live stage of course it has a powerful
scripting of some powerful scripting
tools in there but it also has some
tools to help you create presentations
basically excuse me there's a did you
know that there's a synchronizer inside
of live stage ok let me show you how
that works ok let's create it let's
create a brand new project we're going
to start straight from scratch ok I'm
the first thing I'm going to do once
this is is up is I'm going to do command
I show the movie inspector I'm just
going to set right off the top my
dimensions of the movie that I want to
create and I'm going to erase that
background then I'm going to save it
this is really important because before
before this I actually created a library
folder and inside that library folder I
put all my media that I'm going to use
for this particular project this is
really important because I want all my
materials in that one folder so that I
can transport this if I'm on different
computers and stuff we want to be able
to transport this around so you see the
movie there's a background image in the
slides or in that area so I'm going to
say that one level up from that library
folder and
is called sample okay now once I save
that if I look at the local library it's
pointing to that library folder that's
just been set up so now I can go ahead
and I'm going to drag in my background
image and I'm going to drag in the movie
clip okay I'm going to position that
movie clip so it's right on top of that
area and if I put if I move my mouse
over the duration well over the the
video clip it's telling me the duration
27:22 two to one and I'm going to just
this is kind of just an easy way to make
the duration of the background clip the
same okay so now excuse me you can see
that oh hi what happened there I must
have mistyped something okay there we go
now we've got the background of the
background has the same duration as the
video clips now we're going to put the
slides in now to do this what we need to
do is that there's I guess a couple
different ways you can do this this is
how I like to do it I select all these
slides then uh here we go and it's
important that you select every single
file if you were just to grab the folder
and drag it over to this area but it
does is it creates a single track for
every single on those images and we
don't want that so here we go so if we
drag that over here what it does it
creates a single picture track with all
those tracks with all those pictures
lined up you see other I'll lined up
together okay so what we're going to do
now is we're going use the synchronizer
to specify at the times of all those
slides so how do how do we do that we
select the soundtrack down here come
under movie and choose media
synchronizer here's the synchronizer we
get to select the source of source for
the the audio a video track that we're
going to synchronize to then down here
we're going to select we're going to
select the track that we're going to use
I forgot to do something very important
don't follow me follow Michael Schaff
because this is his recommendation that
is to name every single
tract and item explicitly this can help
you tremendously in your development so
let me just do this real quick sorry
creature of habit here okay so here are
my slides there we go
so now if I have selected the soundtrack
and go back to the media synchronizer
now I know for sure that I want to sync
two slides not some other track we could
be syncing the background track while we
know okay so from this point we have the
opportunity to click the synchronize
button and what we want to do here is as
we're listening to this we want to set
the out point or the end point depending
on where we are so let's see if we can
do this we talked in an earlier
presentation about how to plan a
presentation I think this goes on for a
little bit so I'm going to try to jumped
a little bit we are going to talk about
why every good kind of reviews at the
very beginning here and then talk about
how to implement those three elements
and a good presentation so what elements
okay I was right there I'm going to have
that slide well naturally any message
has automatically a beginning
well little little late Andy okay let's
just suppose oh I'm Way off occupy
anyway you get the idea here that as you
go through now the slides are a little
bit slow we kind of put in the feedback
forgets live stage to make those slides
a little bigger so we can kind of figure
out how we're doing well what's nice
about this is that you do get to see
kind of the previous slide and the next
slide as you're going through and
synchronizing this and you can just go
through in a linear fashion all the way
through your presentation to get this
thing done now once it's done let's see
if so once it's done if you come back
here you'll notice that well once you do
all of them the notes that the durations
of all those have been lined up exactly
where you want to go all the way through
are we doing oh we've got one minute and
23 seconds so one last thing I want to
show you and that is the multi multi
speed control I'll show you how to set
that up and to do that that's I'm just
going to pull up another project
okay
here's how we said that we basically
followed this same pattern that we just
did we're synchronizing the slide oh I
forgot to mention one other thing but
we'll do that here shortly
so we basically followed that same step
this one has a whole bunch of other
stuff in there but you notice that
there's actually three different tracks
here at the very bottom track one excuse
me I'm losing my voice track one is one
alpha beta power okay
track two is one and a half speed power
and the revolution Shack in our last
lesson
all right track three is two times B
four mmm
okay now what's going on here there's
actually a slower write but what happens
is that when you add your wired sprites
here let's pull up our word sprites real
quick in the code here for wired sprites
we tell this thing okay if it's one
speed well set the movie rate let's see
where is this enough button there we go
if this thing is when you click on the
one speed button it plays one speed when
you click on the one point five it
speeds it up to 1.5 so the trick here is
that you've got to lower the pitch of
the voice so when you play one and a
half speed it brings it up to the same
pitch level and plays it in that fashion
right understanding how that goes so
with 2.5 again since the pitch was
lowered and then you play it two and a
half times speed it actually brings the
pitch back up and plays it faster see
how that works
so basically use logic or I think
there's all kinds of different audio
apps out there that would slow in the
pitch for you so you just want to make
sure that the durations are still the
same on your audio clips but they all
have different pitches to start out with
and then when you bring them in here
when you create those speed buttons it
brings the pitch back up and just plays
it faster so the real trick here is to
get the
you know get what level do you bring the
pitch down and we've kind of found with
different people you kind of have to use
different settings so it's kind of a hit
and miss kind of thing but basically
that's it and let's see can we go back
to slides I think I got a ton I think
I've got about 20 more slides but we'll
skip those because we're over time so
quickly cd-rom deployment of two kinds
we really prefer progressive it just
seems a lot more simple to do
progressive than to at this point in
time for us we distribute all our stuff
on C ROM even in our distance ed
department we do it all on cd-rom we
have to actually turned out to be a
silver lining because of these patent
suits are going on we don't have any
problems with the with the lawsuits
going on right now because we already
were distributing all our materials on
cd-rom
it just for us it just seems a little
bit easier the well we'll leave it at
that
I'm overtime so we we actually deploy a
lot of stuff on te ROM in the web
browser just quickly quick and simple
there's one important thing I'll put on
my website that you'll need to know and
that is an internet explorer if you try
to develop a CD with Internet Explorer
for Windows it bypasses well I guess
they have a feature inside of ie for
Windows that it requires the whole thing
to download the whole movie has to
download into the cache before it starts
playing there's a workaround for that
use QT source tags and all kinds
interesting stuff occasionally we do
deploy through HTTP but a lot of times
what we do is we'll make the movies
available to the students and the
students can download those and burn
those to CD so here's the summary
QuickTime is an excellent solution for
this kind of stuff there's all kinds of
great advantages to do it and you know
the development process isn't that bad
there are different ways to create it
captioning is a very important feature
sorry we didn't spend more time on that
indexing of course just add value to
your to materials and time scale
modification I think is can save a lot
of time it can be very useful and here's
who you can contact if you have any
questions just talk to us - or Amy
and that's it